In this exercise, you will learn how to slice your OpenFlow network and have each slice controlled by a separate controller. In the process, you will also learn the concept of flowspaces and how the centralized visibility and “layerless-ness” of OpenFlow enables flexible slicing.

For this exercise we will use an open source tool called the FlowVisor.

==FlowVisor==

* FlowVisor is a special purpose OpenFlow controller that acts as a transparent proxy between OpenFlow switches and multiple OpenFlow controllers.
* FlowVisor creates rich slices of network resources and delegates control of each slice to a different controller. Slices can be defined by any combination of switch ports (layer 1), src/dst ethernet address or type (layer 2), src/dst IP address or type (layer 3), and src/dst TCP/UDP port or ICMP code/type (layer 4).
* FlowVisor enforces isolation between each slice, i.e., one slice cannot control another's traffic.

You can find more information about FlowVisor and source code at: [[http://www.flowvisor.org]]

==Exercise Topology==

In this exercise we will slice a wide-area network (WAN) in two different ways. The WAN shown in the figure above connects two sites. For simplicity, we’ll have each site represented by a single OpenFlow switch, s1 and s4, respectively. The sites, s1 and s4, have two paths between them: 
* a low bandwidth, low latency path via switch s2
* a high bandwidth, high latency path via switch s3

s1 has two hosts attached: h1 and h2. s2 has two hosts attached: h3 and h4.

==Environment Setup==

===Part1: Mininet Setup===

===Part 2: FlowVisor Setup====

==Slicing Exercise==

===Part1: Simple Topology-based Slicing===

===Part2: Advanced Flowspace Slicing===

