__TOC__


== Import Virtual Machine Image ==

If you downloaded the .ovf image,

* '''Start up VirtualBox, then select File>Import Appliance and select the .ovf image that  you downloaded.'''

You may also be able to simply double-click the .ovf file to open it up in your installed virtualization program.

* '''Next, press the "Import" button.'''

This step will take a while - the unpacked image is about 3 GB.

* '''Continue with [[onstutorial#Finish-VM-Setup|Finish VM Setup]] below.'''

== Finish VM Setup ==

You will need to complete '''one more step before you are done with the VM setup'''. 

Select your VM and go to the Settings Tab. Go to Network->Adapter 2. Select the "Enable adapter" box, and attach it to "host-only network".('''Sidenote''': on a new VirtualBox installation you may not have any "host-only network" configured yet. To have one select File menu/Preferences/Network and "Add host-only network" button with default settings. Then you can try the attach.) '''This will allow you to easily access your VM through your host machine.'''

At that point you should be ready to start your VM. Press the "Start" arrow icon or double-click your VM within the VirtualBox window. 

Once the VM starts you should see the desktop view for Lubuntu.  You can open a terminal by clicking inside the VM, then double clicking the Terminal icon in the top left corner, or pressing ctl-alt-t.

== Choose Preferred Editor ==
Nano, Vim, Emacs, and Gedit come installed on the OpenFlowTutorial VM.  Brief instructions for each:

'''Nano''': You can immediately modify a file.  When you're done, hit 'ctrl-x', then say 'Yes' to the prompt, to save and quit.

'''Vim''': to modify a file, type 'i' to enter Insert mode, then use the arrow keys to navigate and edit.  When you're done, hit 'esc', type ':wq', then press enter, to save and quit.

Highly recommended for the NOX tutorial: add the following to ~/.vimrc in the VM:
 set tabstop=4
 set expandtab

'''Emacs''': you can immediately modify a file.  When you're done, hit 'ctrl-x', 'ctrl-s', then hit 'ctrl-x', 'ctrl-c' to exit.  

'''Gedit''': a graphical text editor, no instructions needed.

If you have another preferred text editor, feel free to install it now:
 $ sudo apt-get install <editor>

=== Command Prompt Notes ===
<font color=red>In this tutorial, commands are shown along with a command prompt to indicate what subsystem they are intended for </font>. For example, 

 $ ls

indicates that the <code>ls</code> command should be typed at a Unix (e.g. Linux or OS X) command prompt (which generally ends in <code>$</code> if you are a regular user or <code>#</code> if you are root. 

Other prompts used in this tutorial include 

 mininet>

for commands entered in the Mininet console and 

 C:> 

for code entered into a Windows command window.
